good morning my name is Marc Sue's man
in the camera even though she's a female
and today's episode is gonna be a little
different than what we've done in the
past it's actually been long in the
making
we've been full-time now for two years
and the first year we kind of spent
money like drunken sailors because we
have already made the commitment to live
in our motorhome full-time so at that
point what could we do with that major
expenditure that we made but then as
time went on we could see that just like
everybody else we had a budget that we
had a live in so we decided to record
for one full year what our costs were
and we've just come to that point and
we're gonna share that with you so once
you come along we're out of Keio a
journey and we'll take you on our
financial journey that we've had for the
last two years what let's check check
that out
[Music]
the money on
I counted every time
[Music]
to
[Applause]
[Music]
hi I'm sue a mark is behind the camera
and this is our journey and miles this
is miles if you're new to our channel
don't forget to subscribe hit the
notification bell and give us some
thumbs up join our family let me tell
you a little bit about our style o
full-time RVs we're both retired and on
the road for two years now and we chose
to go the more comfortable way as Mark
always says more more into being
tourists rather than being campers so we
chose one of the bigger rigs it's
comfortable and back here we have our
tow that we take with us this is our
Honda it's a 2013 Honda the reason we
chose to use this vehicle is because we
love a recumbent bikes and this is
perfect it's pretty much the only
minivan that actually could hold our
bikes we actually love our recumbent so
much we're gonna get rid of them this
year honey mark wants an electric bike
yes we're retired we're getting old but
I love our recumbent that'll be another
episode and another reason to subscribe
to our journey and miles that's right
stay tuned let's get down to the nitty
gritty the nitty gritty requires
sunglasses to come off and regular
glasses to come on first thing I want to
tell everybody is you know what I have
to get pencils and papers on and write
anything down because if you last to the
end of this video and if you go down
into the description I'm gonna actually
have our journey and miles email address
you can email me I will gladly send you
my spreadsheet that I made that is gonna
have the basic cost for RVing on our
style which is probably one of the more
expensive styles not because we're rich
it's because I'm old so that really that
is something you have to consider is
what is your lifestyle we do not do a
lot of boondocking we don't do any
boondocking
we don't go into state parks we're just
too big for some parks so because of the
size and because we don't want to you
know do the the harder part of camping
this is a more expensive so this is our
version and you got to find yours what's
right I'll and and quite honestly you
know once again the yin and yang of Sue
and mark if it was up to sue we probably
would be doing boondocking because we do
have a solar system on ours with 1200
watts of solar we bought our rig used
and so we certainly could do that
we don't go to Walmart's or anything
because I'm too intimidated by wheeling
65 feet of machinery in in an unknown
parking lot in an unknown neighborhood
at an unknown area and the people that
can do that I literally tip my hat to
you yeah you're a lot braver than me I'm
not talking safety brave I'm talking
about just you know running into objects
and shopping carts and stuff so we just
shy away from that literally 99% of our
camping is all done in private campsites
and we'll we'll get into that so the
first thing we'll talk about is the
miles driven
we have drove a relatively short 5845
miles so we wanted this claim that this
is just for one year our second year we
didn't really keep track of things the
first year the second year now we were
keeping track of everything so this is
just from June to June June of 2018 to
June of 2019 correct and we drive about
250 miles or less per move we use RV
trip wizard
we highly recommend it it's got a big
radius that we can put on wherever our
route is going and it'll intersect all
of the roads in and around where we're
going so it's real easy to do this we do
this because we're retired the whole
point is to see the United States not to
roar through it for directions unknown
so that's our particular travel style
you know we always say we are
not on vacation this is our lifestyle so
we're taking in everywhere so we've
traveled only ten states this particular
lap where we left Wisconsin we meandered
around we spent our winter down in the
Pacific Southwest we've went up
basically California and now we're
shooting back across through North
Dakota and we're eventually going to end
up back in Wisconsin so that's why it's
such a low number of states ten states
we use TripAdvisor when we get to each
of these states and we'll do some
googling to see what's to do there
sometimes we'll modify the days that
we're staying in a particular place if
it looks like there's a lot of things
the important thing for us is that we
still subscribe to a lot of vlogs and
you can't beat it when somebody has
already been in the area that you're
anticipating to be in and especially if
they have good video quality and they'll
show you what they did it makes it that
much more exciting and you'll have that
much more enthusiasm showing up to do
exactly what they did when they did a
good job of videoing it now where do we
stay each and every night well we
already said that we stay in private
campgrounds and we've stayed at repair
facilities that's our boondocking yeah
although we do use to get electric yes
but nine days out of the entire year we
spent in repair facilities that's
actually quite a bit lower than our
first year how many was it the first
year I want to say about thirty about
twenty in one spot and that was mainly
because we had to wait for them to get
parts right so but that turned out
actually pretty good because it was in
Atlanta there's tons to see in Atlanta
yeah we drove into and almost every day
just doing our touristy things right so
we did stay one day at harvest horse
we're gonna try to change that this
third year going around because the
harvest horse is awesome it's just that
when we finally remember to use them
we're
an area here in the North West portion
of the US they seem to be a little light
in the harvest they're light plus we're
just so big so we do look at the
satellite just the view of where the
harvest sauce is to see how hard will it
be for us to get in there yes and we did
stay at one it was fantastic
yeah and there's been a couple of times
that we actually were going to stay at a
place but then under a little bit more
scrutiny you have to read the reviews
and the different things that people see
and then you know you get the oh yeah
there was a bridge that had a you know a
five ton or ten ton capacity limit so
watch that well you know we're 45,000
pounds with miles so I kind of watch
bridges that I drive over as well as
ridges that I drive under so you got to
kind of pay attention to what you're
doing
so we had a total of 37 stays but six of
the stage were one month at a crack so
if you do the math which doesn't exactly
make a lot of sense but if you do the
math on the 31 stays that were not one
month we ended up with a stay of average
of five point seven days take that for
what it's worth
do you want to talk about this one the
mailing service so we actually do have a
an episode on our mailing service we're
doing it through the what it's st.
Brendan's Isle in Green Cove spring in
Florida right we can put a link down to
that particular episode yeah it really
tells how it works for us and it works
fantastic but so the expense we're
talking about for that it costs us $20 a
month to subscribe to this and then
usually on average two times a month for
if we're gonna be at a place for at
least a week we'll have our mail sent to
us so usually twice a month on average
will have its end and that comes to
about 18 dollars per time so when we
figure it out for our budget 56 dollars
a month just for our mailing service
worth it though very dependable and you
know some people that go full-time and
they they try to claim a different state
as their residency but yet they don't
have a mail service there this all gets
dicey
you know if down the road you end up
getting audited so my advice to you is
if you're going full-time and if you're
changing your domicile you want to make
sure that you pretty much clean out
everything that you owned in the state
that you're leaving we left Wisconsin if
you're leaving Minnesota Minnesota has a
reputation for really coming after
people because they want their money so
make sure if you're leaving Minnesota at
least that you don't have any property
and you don't have a storage response
yeah
sorry so the next thing that you have to
be aware of a cost per month is
memberships and who actually runs most
of these memberships it ends up being
$43 per month on average you want to
talk about some well worth membership so
we we use all stays to find our
different campgrounds we're part of the
FMC a the family motorcoach association
and we got a discount on tire we had to
buy one tire or three actually we
belonged to Good Sam another good place
to figure out where we're gonna go other
places harvest host KOA Passport America
and then our RV trip wizard which we use
mainly for our planning our travel plans
right and we absolutely love it love it
another membership that we've used a lot
is Costco so we Costco is pretty much
everywhere and we'll really load up on
that save money that way and then we are
bicycle direct riders so we usually
wherever we go we like to find where are
some of the best bike trails so we also
are a member of the trail link and find
some fantastic bike trails all over the
US so as far as internet and phone we
might be a little heavy on these
cost here because obviously you know
just like you're listening to this video
right now we have to upload and download
all sorts of stuff to keep this channel
alive so we have 2 unlimited smartphone
plans that cost us 121 dollars per month
we have one AT&T Wi-Fi hotspot that
costs us $25 a month we have one AT&T
mobely hotspot that costs us 23 a month
and a verizon hotspot that costs us 65
per month so you add all this up it's
234 dollars per month now I might add
and put a little shot up for techno
media Chris and Cherie right I think it
cost me $59 to be a member of that per
year we pretty much have done everything
that they suggested to do if it makes
sense for us Internet wise and they have
not led us astray at all they're there
on a must check out if you're not aware
we're clueless on what to do so we just
pretty much are like a sheep and do what
they say to do and it's worked out
really well and we recommend them our
tow vehicle costs now we as sue
mentioned we told a Honda Odyssey
minivan we told that so we can use it
basically as a garage for our bicycles
my bicycles are real long they're kind
of specialized they've got all sorts of
gadgets on them you know when you're
driving around all year long with your
bike on the back all of the dirt and
gravel and rain you know you name it
they would they be totally trashed so
whatever we drive is always going to
have to be covered
we have no loan on the car we just have
insurance fuel and maintenance and that
comes to a hundred and ninety one
dollars per month and that insurance is
through national general now we used to
have progressive they gave us our great
rate the first year but then like all
insurance companies they Jack it up the
next year we had no
claims know-nothing have totally
illogical I rewarded them for their
efforts by dropping them and getting
someone else
we drove 592 miles then yeah that was
driven we've probably pulled it another
four five hundred miles that month now
we're into the RV costs and this is
where it really starts to get jacked up
in our chart we've that you're welcome
to get if you send your email address to
our journey and miles dot-com email
address which I'll have down in the
description
I will send you these this excel chart
and you can fill in the different things
that you have we do not have a loan on
it so that's a real saver for us our
diesel costs averaged two hundred and
sixty three dollars per month we have an
all-electric coach so on our Excel
spreadsheet we have an empty space for
propane but you'd be able to fill in
your propane costs our RV insurance is
two hundred and fifty five dollars per
month now why is it so expensive well we
bought our coach used for two hundred
and thirty thousand dollars it's about a
four hundred thousand dollar list RV so
when you're at that end of the RV
spectrum of what you're driving of
course you're gonna pay a lot more
because if you would ever have an
accident the insurance company's gotta
lie a lot lotta liability there well
what about being full-time that really
affected us good points too I'm glad you
mentioned as well there are certain
states that are certainly more
user-friendly to full-time people and
there's only so many insurance companies
that allow you to be full-time I don't
want to have any issues if I ever have a
problem and I have an accident or a fire
or a disaster so honesty is absolute
must in how we're operating here
our RV towing insurance averages us
about $20 per month were members of FMC
a roadside assistance and coach net now
I want to caution people that only have
FMC a roadside assistance it's just that
it's roadside assistance if you're in an
accident and you need your rig towed
they will not pay for it don't believe
me give them a call
you'll be surprised that's why we have
on both coach net is the real McCoy
they're used to hauling around big giant
monsters like this so it's no surprise
to them when you give them a call and
you might need a flatbed our RV repairs
and maintenance costs this year were
actually on the low side they were five
hundred and eighty four dollars of that
per month that's that's per month yes
and so if you wrap up the entire RV cost
it was eleven hundred and twenty-two
dollars per month to keep that jalopy
rolling next year we're anticipating it
to be much more because we're gonna end
up buying six tires and there are almost
eight hundred bucks a pop and plus I'm
more than likely gonna get some
something called retro bands which I
highly recommend people look at it's
only sold exclusively by national indoor
RV it's the absolute utmost in safety
for your front tires in case of a
blowout right now I actually have tyronn
tire bands inside they were about
seventeen hundred dollars they have
installed we've successfully had them in
for two years I have no issues with them
but I'm gonna move on have them take it
out carefully I'll sell those on
Craigslist and I'm going to the next
generation this retro band our monthly
campsites expenses now this is the
climax of the whole video I guess here
we saw all over the place yeah we spent
teen hundred excuse me we spent 15219
dollars on rent or if you want to call
it campsite fees which comes out to
about twelve hundred and sixty eight
dollars per month or forty one dollars
and 63 cents per day so and actually if
you want to compare that to renting an
apartment or something this includes all
your electric all your water all that so
that is the expense right but I guess
the fallacy on that thinking is that
when you rent an apartment for twelve
hundred and sixty eight dollars you get
the apartment whereas here are twelve
hundred and sixty eight dollars it's
just a space to put our apartment we
bring our apartment so it's it's really
a tough analysis and quite honestly
that's why we're doing this I mean it's
a little bit strange and embarrassing to
be putting your whole financial life out
on the internet but I can't tell you how
many times I've looked at different
sites talking about how cheap and
thrifty it is to do this lifestyle when
in fact if you want to actually enjoy
yourself when you're out there and stay
at reasonably nice places and go and do
things and travel you know and and move
a certain amount I mean we only moved
fifty two hundred miles so that's not a
lot so we're doing it pretty slow and
that's what keeps your costs down but
yet this whole adventure that we're on
is expensive now I think at this point I
want to put a shout-out to a channel
called next exit Bob and pearl have done
an excellent job every single month
documenting what they've been spending
for the better part of well over a year
in fact I contacted Bob and way back
when probably over a year ago he sent me
his spreadsheets and that was kind of
the basis on which we started now his
are so detailed that I actually dumbed
it down a little bit because it was just
a lot of work for us and we'll leave
that work to Bob and pearl because I
believe as of the taping of our episode
here
next exit is still publishing their
monthly class a Motorhome cost so check
them out so I took out in the chart if
you order them from us for free we'll
just send you these xrail spreadsheets I
took out the month of me because the
month of me was when we spent
predominantly all of our time in one
area but also in a couple other
expensive areas of California California
was by far was even more expensive to
rvn than the Florida area during high so
it was expensive so if I take me out on
cost drop to eleven hundred and
sixty-eight dollars per month for
campsite fees which puts us at thirty
eight dollars and seventy cents now we
mostly stay at Koh so we only get a ten
percent discount and we get a tional
free night because we accumulate so many
points by staying in Koh but why do we
stay in Koh oh because we can book so
easily so it's like 11:00 at night and
we're like man we really need to book
something down the road here and we can
go right online they have an awesome
online reservation system but also
they're pretty consistent if you're
gonna be at a KOAT journey you know that
it's gonna be usually one people you
know one night stays and then you're on
your way or if you're at a holiday you
can expect a whole lot more going on as
far as amenities right so we can kind of
anticipate what the place will be like
and what they have to offer but it's
mainly the the reservation system online
yeah it could be two o'clock in the
morning and you can be having a panic
all of a sudden that you have to go a
different direction and you can be
assured that you can have a place to
store your 65-foot a contraption that
you're bringing along now other people
that are more manly man than me they'll
just end up in a Cabela's or a Walmart
or somewhere and and they're perfectly
fine with that maybe on our third year
here I'll finally man up and try
something like that but I'm not
promising that's gonna say it's public
now so I want to mention two other
things there's another blog out there
called RV love guy you know anybody that
does any reasonable amount of vlogging
searching around on the internet would
know that but they have an excellent
series and write-ups on the thousand
trails membership I think Bob and Pearl
at next exit also say different things
about it because they are members we're
certainly going to investigate that to
see if we could drop our cost but I'm 67
we've been at this two years we actually
see no end in sight so based on that we
really should look at that because that
could really drop our cost the problem
is is when I look at where these places
are there almost predominantly all
stacked on top of each themselves over
on the East Coast and over on the west
coast and there's just like this big
dead zone in between you know if any of
you out there have really good
experience with Thousand Trails and you
would want to give us some
recommendation one way or the other we'd
really love to hear that we already know
that you should buy a secondary
membership through a membership if I end
up going the Thousand Trails way I will
buy the most SuperDuper plan so that I
have the best shot at being able to stay
wherever I happen to be so what is it
the super duper opens up more
campgrounds yeah yes and there's
different zones and there's it's a real
complex system and it seems to be
getting more and more complex every time
they work on it okay
so then the last thing that I've
included in the chart here and RV love
actually talked about this at a big
expense that everybody just kind of
sweeps under the carpet but really
shouldn't be is the cost of depreciation
and I have a line on that in our
cost sheets and I think I think maybe in
my cost sheets that I would give you I
would actually fill in it would be I've
left a little spot in there where you
can put in the price that you paid for
your RV and then it's multiplied by 8%
and it's put in as a cost for every
single month you can see that if you
were to buy an RV for $400,000 and you
have an 8% depreciation cost every month
or excuse me every year and you divide
it by 12 it is a real cost at or on your
monthly cost certainly that money isn't
coming out of your wallet every month
but there's gonna come a time further
down the road where you're finally gonna
get hit for it and you need to have that
in your exit plan when you're finally
done doing this and you either go to a
tiny home or you go to a water park my
model or you go back to an apartment or
stick and brick but it's a cost that is
lurking out there and if you aren't
thinking about it then you're gonna have
a real yeah it's definitely definitely
not investing in a house where usually
with the house to sell it down the line
you're gonna make some money you're not
with an RV usually so I want to thank
sue for all of the work all of the work
that she put in this because I can't
tell you how many times I would flip her
a receipt on something that we've bought
or we'd go into a campground and we're
buying fuel or whatever and then I might
think oh I bet you she forgot that and
I'd quiz her on it and I'll be darned if
every single time she had it we've been
as accurate as we could on this I will
tell you that when I finally assemble
this a few days ago it was an eye-opener
for even me I knew this was going to be
expensive we're pretty much right at the
end of our affordability on this
we are certainly not complaining after
coming up with these costs and seeing
how expensive it is we're still only
gonna change still we're still going so
now with what you documented though
that's you didn't put like our personal
things like groceries and stuff like
that well good question sue yeah because
everybody is so different we tend to buy
organic which is gonna be a lot more
expensive we shop at Costco which you
save money when you buy in bulk but even
like entertainment when we were in Las
Vegas we had friends visit entertainment
price went really up but when we were in
Yellowstone National Park I mean we
packed our lunch every day and had
picnics so our entertainment and our
restaurant expenses were way down right
so we didn't include any of that on this
stuff did we but we do know that the
channel our journey and miles is all
about value so I did actually include it
in the second chart that I'll give you
so the first chart is a stripped-down
one that you're welcome to just fill in
all your things and they'll kind of give
you your rock-bottom cost for the RVing
type thing but then I included this a
lot of channels don't but I thought you
know what if you don't particularly have
a handle on what your groceries are use
our handle until you get your handle
likewise some of the other things on
here we shop different yeah so you I see
that you've got like the medical
expenses the medical insurance dental
doing this Invisalign thing right now
trying to fix my bite that's an expense
end right everybody's going to do and I
can tell you that if you ask me how much
we eat out and how often were in
restaurants it's not much at all I mean
when we're going to Costco all the time
and dropping 400 bucks every time there
obviously we're not anytime but yet when
you're traveling and you're in awesome
places and you have to make decisions do
i quick run home so I can save five
bucks on a sandwich or are we gonna sit
down come on some of eating oh it
actually is the experience
the area where their local food their
local like we just hit a little coffee
shop here in Miles City Montana
fantastic in full coffee shot it is so
cute and fantastic coffee so you want to
experience and we literally might walk
back to that same city because there was
another place that was like a thrift
antique store but they had a giant
Woolworths dining hall the original so
those vehicles oh so we might go there
we may or may not take our cameras but
we've got to experience there yeah so
you got to pull your wallet out so
restaurants for instance we spent an
average of three hundred and eight
dollars per month a month that's not a
lot you know if anybody that eats at a
restaurant entertainment wise you know
we had a couple of months there where it
got jacked up but entertainment Vegas
384 months we're not going to bore you
with the details that's all available
for here just to help you guys to come
up with the sad but true final and it's
the price of admission that's what we
always say I mean we want this lifestyle
we love this lifestyle and we know it's
gonna cost us the way we travel and
stuff but we work so hard all our lives
saving and stuff and it's like it's time
to uh spend good money fun and we're
gonna see chance for our kids each each
kid so don't worry guys you'll get your
ten bucks okay
well if you like this video and you
appreciate the effort we put into it
please hit the subscribe button hit the
like button hit the notification bell do
whatever join our small family of
subscribers and let's get a little bit a
little bit bigger and no more people
around the country if you don't
subscribe
we don't know anybody's watching we know
you're there so we all appreciate
anything watching yeah okay we'll see
you guys next time
alright
huh good jump real good job yeah I hope
the camera was I know and I hope the
microphone work oh geez did we check it
yeah we did yeah we did